---
title: <Climate Claims Part 2>
layout: default
nav_order: 1 
---
# **Climate as a Tool of Division**

**Jonathan Spence**

**February 14th, 2021** 

The arguments made by Benjamin Zycher in this article are both unique and flawed. Whereas most articles try to attack a specific statistic or scientific argument, Zycher plays much more to readers’ emotions, exploiting their emotional vulnerabilities. This is incredibly useful when trying to captivate and convert an audience, but it is also inherently dishonest as it forces an opinion upon his readers instead of allowing them to synthesize and analyze scientific facts. 

Looking first at the author himself, Dr. Zycher has no higher education in the sciences. All of his degrees fall in economics or political science (AEI, 2021). This is not to say that scientific debates should be left to those with science degrees, I believe that to be an elitist and detrimental school of thought. However, proper scientific rigour is essential when looking at climate statistics and viewpoints. Zycher has a history of writing emotion-based, divisive articles for those on the political right, and this article is no different (Desmog, 2018). He uses simple language and standard republican rhetoric to play to his base, and while he cites many scientific sources, the arguments he makes with them are specious at best. This is intentional and, truthfully, evil as it serves to further divide an American population that is already polarized. Even the title does this with the phrase “The climate left attacks”. He makes climate change a partisan issue despite the fact that it will affect those of all political affiliations, perhaps even hitting republican states harder (Brownstein, 2019).

Zycher shows a clear bias throughout this article, citing science only to misuse it, and making many false claims. One of his main arguments against the “climate left” is that they use inaccurate warming models to forecast future changes. Zycher claims that “The alarmists’ assertions about prospective climate phenomena are driven by climate models that have predicted the past and present poorly, under a set of assumptions that are deeply dubious.” This is entirely false, however. In fact, in a study conducted by climate scientists from multiple world-leading scientific universities, it was found that climate models published over the past five decades have been very accurate in their predictions (Hausfather et al., 2019). Zycher also claims that the “attack” on fossil fuels is driven by ideology as opposed to science. This, however, is empirically and wholeheartedly false as well, and science has known this with certainty for decades (Hook and Tang, 2013). These are just two examples of the blatantly false claims that Zycher makes, and while his affinity for lying is detestable, it is also transparent. The American Enterprise Institute, for which Zycher works, gets paid millions of dollars by fossil fuel companies, such as Exxon Mobile (Union of Concerned Scientists, 2018). These groups have a clear history of sciencing climate science, and unfortunately, money talks, publishing its work under the pseudonym Benjamin Zycher. 

One final tactic that Zycher implements in his writing is using William Nordhaus as the gold standard of climate knowledge. He tries to silence any and all opposition to his ideas with the simple fact that he has won a Nobel prize. This is a momentous accomplishment, but, in climate science just like all other disciplines, questioning those at the top is the only way to progress. A Nobel prize is not the be-all and end-all, and it certainly does not discredit the work of thousands of other climate scientists. Overall, Zychner uses many common methods of misinformation in this article to try and discredit science, and despite it looking well researched on the surface, it is clear that Zycher’s only use for science is as a tool to divide and polarize his readers. 
